---
layout: post
title:  " Jurgen Klopp’s best Liverpool signing | Mane, Salah or Virgil Van Dijk?"
date:   2018-11-28  +0530
author: " Vishag"
categories: Football
--- 

# vJurgen Klopp has brought with him an aura of hope and optimism, that has really created a sense of belief for the Liverpool fans.
The Reds have been below par for a few years now, and they will be itching to get their hands on silverware. Jurgen Klopp has come into the club as a ray of sunshine and has pulled off some fabulous transfers after his appointment, especially the big three in the form of Salah, Mane, and Virgil Van Dijk. While there is continued debate over who among the three is his best signing, let’s take a look at the impact each of them have had. 

 

# Mohamed Salah
Many believe that Mohamed Salah is Liverpool’s best ever signing in their recent history. The Egyptian King has been nothing short of exceptional since making his debut for the Reds and has been a masterstroke by Jurgen Klopp and Liverpool to sign the Egyptian on a fee as cheap as 31.50 million Euros. Salah topped the goalscoring charts last season and won the Premier League golden boot among numerous other laurels he won during the course of his debut Premier League season. The man who plays on the right of one of the most deadly trio’s in world football is certainly one of the three top contenders for Jurgen Klopp’s best ever Liverpool signing.

 

# Sadio Mane
Liverpool’s Senegalese superman has been one of the key figures in Jurgen Klopp’s team, since the German’s arrival. Mane was one of Klopp’s first additions to the Liverpool squad and the pace and trickery of the Senegalese are adept to the game style that a Jurgen Klopp team is known for. He was overshadowed by the sheer number of goals scored by his partner in crime Salah, but his contribution to this new look Reds team is almost unmatched. He has been pivotal in every Liverpool squad that has taken the field during the Jurgen Klopp’s era and is undoubtedly one of the top contender’s for the best Liverpool signing made by Jurgen Klopp.

 

# Virgil Van Dijk
The world’s most expensive defender has undoubtedly proved time and again in a Liverpool shirt why the Merseyside club paid such a large fee to acquire his signature. Before his arrival, Liverpool clearly lacked in the defensive department. People say that one man cannot change how a team defends, but the big man from the Netherlands and Klopp certainly proved them wrong. His leadership at the back for Liverpool is unmatched and has proven that he is not only one of the best Centre backs in the league, but certainly one of the best in the world. The captain of the Dutch almost single-handedly transformed Liverpool into a side that boasts one of the best defensive records in all of Europe. With big Virgil at the heart of the defense, Liverpool are certainly looking to give Manchester City a run for their money for the Premier League. 

There can be numerous reasons why each of them are more than capable to be given the status of Klopp’s best signing, but it is most certainly clear that all three of them are key to Jurgen Klopp and his Liverpool team. 