---
layout: post
title:  " Premier League Game Week 14 – Saturday Review"
date:   2018-12-02  +0530
author: " Jigmee Bhutia"
categories: Football
---
Gameweek 14 of the Premier League went underway on the weekend and produced some fine football which lived up to the usual standards of the reputed English League. 
Here we look at the Premier League highlights of the day.

 

# Southampton 2 – 2 Manchester United 
Manchester United struggled to come back from two goals down to secure a point but their Premier League troubles extended with a 2-2 draw at Southampton.

All of the goals came in the first half of the game on Saturday. Southampton took the early lead as Stuart Armstrong netted his 3rd goal in 2 games. He struck a robust effort past David de Gea and into the far corner after being played in by Michael Obafemi in the 13th minute. A stunning free-kick from Cedric Soares gave the hosts a two-goal cushion in the 20th minute.

Southampton’s festivities somewhat dampened when Romelu Lukaku latched onto Rashford‘s through ball before striking the ball into the top corner to claim his first goal for the club since 15th September. Ander Herrera brought United back on level terms just six minutes later. Rashford once again providing the final ball for Herrera to flick past Alex McCarthy.

The momentum had swayed back in United’s favor after the inspiring comeback, however, after the break, they failed to carry on that tempo. With time running out, Southampton looked to be the stronger of the two sides as they held on for a valuable point to move up to the 18th position in the league and relieve the pressure on manager Mark Hughes. United, on the other hand, move up to 7th but remain without a win in three Premier League games.

 

# Manchester City 3 – 1 Bournemouth
Manchester City maintained their unbeaten Premier League run with a hard-fought 3-1 victory over Bournemouth at the Ethiad.

City got the lead when Bernardo Silva shot through a crowded box and into the net in the 16th minute. Bournemouth got a deserved equaliser just before the break as Callum Wilson‘s excellent header from Simon Francis‘ cross found the top corner to take the striker’s tally up to 8 goals this season.

Raheem Sterling got his 9th goal of the season in the 57th minute as he thumped home from close range after Begovic had spilt Danilo‘s effort. Leroy Sane, who caused Bournemouth’s defence problems throughout the game, finally got an assist as he fired a low cross from the byline for Gundogan to tap into the net.

The result puts Manchester City 5 points clear at the top of the Premier League while Bournemouth move down to the 9th position.

 

# In other news
Junior Hoilett‘s exceptional strike helped Cardiff make a comeback against Wolves to beat them 2-1 at home.

Andros Townsend‘s astonishing goal was crucial as Crystal Palace ended a run of 8 games without a victory with a 2-0 triumph over Burnley.

Javier “Chicharito” Hernandez scored a brace as West Ham ended Newcastle‘s winning run with a comfortable 3-0 victory at St James’ Park.

Jamie Vardy and James Maddison both found the net in the first half to give Leicester a 2-0 win over Watford.

Brighton came from a goal down against Huddersfield to win the match 2-1 after Steve Mounie‘s controversial red card saw the hosts play with 10 men.

source: https://khelpanda.com/premier-league-saturday-review/