---
layout: post
title:  " Cristiano Ronaldo | Best start by a Juventus player in the last 60 years."
date:   2018-12-03  +0530
author: " Vishag"
categories: Football
--- 
If anybody had any concerns whether Cristiano Ronaldo will settle into Italian football, they have been well and truly appeased by Portuguese captain. As Ronaldo continues breaking records in Juventus, let’s take a look at the latest mark he has left in the history of the Italian giants. 
As Ronaldo netted again in an easy win for Juventus against Florentina, the Portuguese sensation has broken yet another record in the famous black and white kit of Juventus as he recorded the best start to his career of anyone for Juventus in the last six decades. Ronaldo went into the game on second place on the goalscoring charts of the Serie A, just behind Polish international Piatek who has netted 10 goals this season. But after converting from the spot 11 minutes before full time, Ronaldo now shares the top spot with the former. 

Bentancur and Chiellini struck early and gave the Old Lady a comfortable two-goal cushion before the penalty was converted. Ronaldo has now managed to score 10 goals in 14 games and has proven to all his haters and the people who doubted his goal-scoring ability that he still processes the magic touch that he is renowned for everywhere around the World. This meant he equaled the record in Turin, one that had stood since 1957, when Welsh legend John Charles managed to net 10 goals in the first 14 games as a Juventus player. 

The comfortable win means that Juventus now sit at the top of the table 11 points clear of second-placed Napoli who have a game in hand. Signs suggest that Juventus are all set to comfortably win their eighth successive league title in Italy, with a solid chance to win the Champions League too. They seem extremely comfortable both at home and away from where the performance records are almost identical. They are the only unbeaten team away from home in 2018 with a staggering point average of 2.7 points per game, the best in Europe’s top 5 leagues. With superb contribution from Ronaldo among other’s, Juventus have managed to score at least 2 goals in all of their last seven matches that were played away from home. This helped in breaking yet another record in the Serie A as Juventus are the only team to record 40 points after the first 14 matchdays. 

The impact that Portuguese superstar Ronaldo is having on the Serie A giants is something very evident. They are now one of the best teams in Europe and are well poised to not only win the Serie A but also go a long way in Europe’s premier club competition, the UEFA Champions League. 