---
layout: post
title:  " Liverpool scores the last-gasp winner against Tottenham to go back at the top: Match Report, Talking Points & Analysis"
date:   2019-05-02  +0530
author: " Aditya Joshi"
categories: Football
---
An intense tale of two halves concluded at the exquisite stage of Anfield in the most dramatic style as the challengers scored at the death via Toby Alderwild to mark a crucial victory against Tottenham Hotspur.

Premier League has come to its business end and race for the Premier League title is heating up immensely week after week. At this juncture, from the perspective of Liverpool and Manchester City, every fixture is undoubtedly a final.

Apparently, on Sunday, the Reds ingressed their home ground needing nothing but all important three points. It was Tottenham who went off to a good start but after a period of 10-15 minutes, the hosts gathered a good control on the game and slightly started to cause Spurs’ defense a real problem. It was Roberto Firmino who broke the deadlock for the Reds with a well taken headed finish thanks to a sublime delivery by Andrew Robertson. They had an array of chances in the first 45 minutes but failed to capitalize on them and headed to the half time with a narrow lead on their back.

The second half was quite a revelation for Tottenham, and Liverpool seemed to have lost their propulsion to some extent. Spurs looked like will find an equalizer and they got so when Lucas Moura scored from a close range on the 70th-minute mark. The Kop End was injected with a nervy unsettlement. The Reds’ twelfth man needed a late miracle and they got that yet again.

Ultimately it came down to a set piece and then fascinating cross by Alexander-Arnold that saw Salah’s header palmed out by Tottenham’s gloves-man Hugo Lloris and then it was put into the back of the net by Toby Alderwield. Anfield erupted. Their team won it at the last and regained the top spot yet again. While for Spurs, a loss at Anfield is a significant blow to their top four hopes and Mauricio Pochettino’s men will head to their new stadium with a big task on hand. 