---
layout: post
title:  "Sun Devils Score First 2021 Verbal from CIF State Finalist Ana Izabella Adame"
date:   2019-10-13 17:38:00 +0530
categories: Aquatics
---
# Sun Devils Score First 2021 Verbal from CIF State Finalist Ana Izabella Adame
Arizona State University has officially entered into the Class of 2025 recruiting game after snagging a verbal commitment from Ana Izabella Adame of Santa Clarita, Calif., who will arrive in Tempe in the fall of 2021.

Adame does her club swimming with Canyon Aquatic Club under head coach Kevin Nielsen and has already achieved the Olympic Trials standard in the 100m breast. She placed ninth in the 100m breast at Junior Nationals this past summer after earning bronze in that event as well as taking sixth in the 200m breast at Mount Hood Futures. Last winter, she recorded a pair of best times at Juniors West before going on to finish third in both breaststroke events at Carlsbad Sectionals.

A current junior at Valencia High School, Adame is a four-time CIF Southern DI Section Championship finalist. She was the 100 breast runner-up and raced to fourth in the 100 fly as a sophomore after placing fifth in the 100 breast and ninth in the 200 IM as a freshman. Adame also placed third in the 100 breast and 10th in the 100 fly during her sophomore season at the CIF State Championships.She told Swimming World:

    “I am super excited and proud to announce my verbal commitment to Arizona State University! I will be continuing my academic studies and my swim career in such a beautiful school! I want to thank everyone who has helped and supported me throughout everything! super excited to finally say that I am going to be a baby sun devil and continuing my “vision phase” at ASU! with some very amazing coaches and staff! #forksup”

Her best times include:

    100 breast – 1:01.41
    200 breast – 2:13.86
    100 fly – 53.85
    200 IM – 2:02.08

Adame will add some much-needed breaststroke depth to the Sun Devils’ lineup when she arrives on campus at the start of the 2021-22 season and will be a valuable asset for them both individually and on relays. She would’ve scored in the B-final of the 100 breast and 100 fly as well as the C-final of the 200 breast at the 2019 Pac-12 Championships where Arizona State finished fourth overall in the team standings.
https://www.swimmingworldmagazine.com/news/sun-devils-score-first-2021-verbal-from-cif-state-finalist-ana-izabella-adame
