---
layout: post
title:  "Who will win Most Improved Player of the Year in the 2019-20 NBA season? "
date:   2019-10-19 21:45:18 +0530
categories: Basketball
---

# There are a number of strong candidates, from Lonzo Ball and Bam Adebayo to Jonathan Isaac and Zach Collins.

In the lead-up to the 2019-20 NBA season, our NBA.com Staff will be rolling out predictions for each end of season award.

Today, we're focusing on the Most Improved Player of the Year.

Scott Rafferty (@crabdribbles): This is by far and away the hardest award to predict, but I keep going back to Miami Heat centre Bam Adebayo.

The tricky thing about Adebayo's MIP case is that he's not someone to put up big numbers - he averaged 11.8 points and 9.1 rebounds per game as a starter last season - but I think this is the season that he proves himself to be an indispensable part of the Heat. He's already an incredibly versatile defender who can protect the rim and switch onto guards, and he's made encouraging strides on offence through his two seasons with the Heat, mostly as a rim-runner and passer.

If Adebayo can continue to expand his offensive game, particularly as a midrange shooter, it would do wonders for the new-look Heat's offence. And with more team success - the Heat should make the playoffs this season and could potentially fight for homecourt advantage - Adebayo should get more recognition for the value he provides on both ends of the court.

His role isn't a question anymore either. Whereas he used to split minutes with Hassan Whiteside, he's now the locked-in as the Heat's starting centre, with Kelly Olynyk and Meyers Leonard serving as his backups.

With opportunity being a big factor in winning the award, Adebayo is set up well to take home MIP this season.

Gilbert McGregor (@GMcGregor21): Most Improved Player is often tricky to predict, but I'm going with Trail Blazers forward Zach Collins for a few reasons:

Collins is entering his third season in the league
I'm largely against second-year players earning the award because players should naturally be expected to make the jump from Year 1 to Year 2 given the lessons you learn as well as the bumps and bruises you take as a rookie.

Collins is set to take on a bigger role than ever before
The 21-year-old is projected to start for Portland this season - he enters the year having started in just one of the first 143 games of his career. Last season, he showed promise as a stretch big man that has the capability to protect the rim as well; Collins had 17 games with at least two blocks, including a six-block performance against the Lakers and 10 games with two or more made 3-pointers.

With the changes made this offseason, the Blazers will lean on Collins' offensive production more than we realize.

History sometimes repeats itself
CJ McCollum, who was taken 10th overall in 2013, was named the league's Most Improved Player in his third season after he became a full-time starter. McCollum averaged just 6.3 points in the first 100 games of his career (three starts) and erupted to average 20.8 points per game in Year 3.

Collins, who was taken 10th overall in 2017, enters his third season with the expectations of becoming a full starter after averaging 5.6 points per game in his first two seasons. Given the offensive production from McCollum and Damian Lillard, Collins won't have as great of a jump in production but I fully expect him to double his scoring at the very least and open some eyes with his ability to spread the floor and protect the rim.

He's a major X-Factor to the Blazers' success and, if he makes a leap this year, should get the nod for Most Improved.

