---
layout: post
title:  "NBA Season Preview 2019-20: Are the Chicago Bulls a sleeper playoff team?"
date:   2019-10-21 21:15:18 +0530
categories: Basketball
---

# The Bulls feature a pair of potential first-time All-Stars, trustworthy veterans, a skilled rim-protecting defensive anchor and a rookie coming off a historic preseason. Are the Chicago Bulls poised to make a significant leap up the Eastern Conference standings?

# Will Zach LaVine make an All-Star leap?

Zach LaVine is coming off the best season of his career, where he set new personal marks for points, assists, rebounds and field goal percentage. Scoring 23.7 points per game for a 22-win team won't get it done when it comes to making the All-Star team, but if the Bulls take a sizeable step forward as many project them to do, LaVine is a popular pick to make his first All-Star game.

The biggest area of improvement for LaVine is on the defensive end and he's even said as much, expressing nothing short of candid assessments of his own play and effort on that end of the floor. He doesn't need to become a world class stopper to reach All-Star status, but making strides on that end would do wonders for those pundits who still view LaVine as a largely inefficient scorer whose strengths thus far have not contributed towards winning.

An explosive athlete that can get his shot whenever he wants, LaVine fits the profile of a No. 1 offensive option and potentially elite end-of-shot-clock creator. For a team looking to climb into the playoff picture in a wide-open Eastern Conference, LaVine cementing his status as an All-Star would do wonders to that end.

# Can the frontcourt of the future stay healthy?

Chicago seemingly has its frontcourt of the future in Lauri Markkanen and Wendell Carter Jr., both of whom have All-Star potential (for Markkanen, it could happen as early as this season).

Their games fit well: Markkanen the Dirk-esque sweet-shooting floor spacer that's capable of attacking off the dribble; Carter Jr. the Horford-esque defensive anchor, far more mobile and skilled than he at first appears. The biggest question mark so far is can they stay healthy?

The two of them appeared alongside each other in just 21 games last season. It's the second straight year Markkanen has struggled to stay on the floor as he played 52 games in 2018-19 after missing 14 games his rookie season in 2017-18. Chicago was somewhat of a mess last season so it's not prudent to glean too much from the 436 minutes they spent on the floor together beyond the simple fact that if Chicago's going to make the playoffs, lineups with those two will need to be far better than last year when they were outscored by 13.7 points per 100 possessions.

# Will they defend well enough to compete for a playoff spot?

No matter how explosive a LaVine/Markkanen led offense appears, the Bulls need to improve on the other end of the floor where they ranked just 25th last season. This is one area where the veteran additions of Thaddeus Young and Tomas Satoransky, not to mention a full season of Otto Porter comes into play.

Young and Porter in particular figure to play large roles as both have the size, speed and length to guard the hybrid forwards littered throughout the league.

Satoransky's efforts on the defensive end loom large as well as neither LaVine nor rookie Coby White project to be particularly strong defenders. Kris Dunn, Chicago's starting point guard for much of last season, will be coming off the bench in 2019-20 but could have the opportunity to remain in the rotation if he can resume defending at a high level.

A lot is riding on the efforts of Carter on the inside as he is Chicago's only true rim protector. If Carter proves to be a capable solo rim protector on the inside, that combined with the veteran additions should give Chicago enough resistance on he defensive end of the floor to remain competitive and in the playoff picture.

source: https://in.nba.com/news/who-will-lead-the-nba-in-scoring-in-2019-20-season-harden-curry-giannis/hu68jel5n6eu1f3kfk5hg5iaw