---
layout: post
title:  "Serena Slams Svitolina To Reach 10th US Open Final, Will Meet Andreescu"
date:   2019-09-06 15:10:00 +0530
categories: Tennis
---
Serena Williams cruised into her 10th US Open final Thursday night crushing World No. 5 Elina Svitolina 6-1, 6-3 in just 70 minutes.

In one of her best performances of the event, the 37-year-old Serena fought off some early opposition from Svitolina, who was playing in her first US Open semifinal, then dominated.

“To be in yet another final, it seems honestly crazy. But I don’t really expect too much less,” Serena said. “I think today was solid. It definitely wasn’t my best tennis. It’s interesting that she knows that. She’s a super professional to know that. She probably could have played better, as well. I definitely know I could have played better.”

Svitolina didn’t drop a set en route to the semifinal, and had posted a win over Venus last week.

“I think she knows what she has to do,” assessed Svitolina. “She has unbelievable strength. She gives lots of power. There’s lots of power behind her shots all the time. That’s what makes her unbelievable, legendary tennis player. On the important moments, she step up, always step up, always brings her best game.”

Serena’s now played back-to-back players in the Top 20 and lost just five games in four sets. And the win was her 101st at the US Open, equalling her with Chris Evert for most in tournament history.

“It’s pretty cool,” Serena said of the stat. “I didn’t know that was even an option. That always makes it even more special when you hear those super cool things without even knowing.”

Serena rolls into her 33rd career Slam final still eyeing that elusive No. 24. To get there, she’ll have to beat the breakout star of 2019, Bianca Andreescu. The Canadian teen won her 13th straight match Thursday night edging Belinda Bencic 7-6(3), 7-5 in a battle of two players in their first Slam semifinal.

Bencic blew six break points early on which cost her later in the set which Andreescu took in a breaker.

The Swiss burst out to a 4-1 lead, but Bencic finally apart late getting broken four straight times as the close of the match which last featured long points, long games and lasted 2 hours, 13 minutes.

“It wasn’t easy at all,” Andreescu said. “She hits the ball really hard and really flat I think every shot. My knees were to the ground. I think it wasn’t too fun playing her. But that’s what makes her such a great player.

I’m just really glad with how I managed that. I tried to change the rhythm as much as possible. That was the goal right from the beginning of the match.

Andreescu becomes the first Canadian man or woman into the US Open final and she beat Serena in her home country last month, though that was by retirement.

“She’s a great player,” Serena said of Andreescu. “She mixes things up. You never know what is going to come from her. She does everything else. She serves well, moves well, has a ton of power. She’s very exciting to watch. It’s good. I think it’s great for women’s tennis.”

Andreescu is ready for the challenge.

“I’ve wanted to play her,” Andreescu said. “I remember always telling my team I would have always wanted to play her right before she retires. I’m really looking forward to it. She’s an amazing champion on and off the court. It’s going to be fun.”
https://www.tennis-x.com/xblog/2019-09-06/30843.php
