---
layout: post
title:  "Medvedev, Khachanov Lead Antwerp; Wawrinka, Murray In Antwerp; Dimitrov In Stockholm"
date:   2019-10-13 09:08:00 +0530
categories: Tennis
---
The European indoor swing goes full-on this week on the ATP with three events marking the start of the final month of the season.

In Moscow, Russian stars Daniil Medvedev, Karen Khachanov and Andrey Rublev lead the way. Medvedev, who just won Shanghai, has won 29 of his last 32 matches and made the finals at his last six events.

Medvedev could face Rublev in the quarters and then Marin Cilic in the semifinals.

Last year, Khachanov beat Adrian Mannarino for the title.

In Antwerp, 3-time Slam winner Stan Wawrinka along with top seed Gael Monfils, former champion Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and home favorite David Goffin.

Andy Murray is also in the event. The unseeded Scot continues his comeback against Belgian Kimmer Coppejans. With a win, Murray would face either Hugo Dellien or Pablo Cuevas. He could Diego Schwartzman in the quarters and Goffin in the semifinals.

A year ago, Kyle Edmund upended Monfils for the win.

Over in Stockholm, Stefanos Tsitsipas won’t defend his crown, but former champion Grigor Dimitrov returns along with top seed Fabio Fognini and North American stars Taylor Fritz, Reilly Opelka, Sam Querrey and Denis Shapovalov.

Fognini, who has a bye, could face Opelka in the quarterfinals. 2013 winner Dimitrov could tangle with Querrey in his opener.

Last year, it was Stefanos Tsitsipas over Ernests Gulbis for his first title.
https://www.tennis-x.com/xblog/2019-10-13/30959.php
